# Ant VR Project
## Introduction

Sometimes when we encounter engineering problems, we look to nature for inspiration for our solutions; what we struggle to solve ourselves has often already been figured out by millions of years of evolution in the natural world. This is called Biomimicry – officially defined as ‘a type of innovation where scientists and engineers look for solutions to the challenges that face human beings by using the patterns of nature ’, also known as Bioinspired engineering.

Biomimicry has been used in the real world very successfully, one example being the Japanese bullet train, which was modelled after the beak of a Kingfisher bird to make it more aerodynamic and quieter upon exiting tunnels . As a spin off from Bioinspired engineering, we are now also interested in bioinspired computing - understanding how we can make improvements to our algorithms and robots using inspiration from nature. 

At the University of Sheffield, my supervisor Dr Michael Mangan has been doing research into the applications of biomimicry in the field of Computer Science. More specifically, looking at bioinspired robotics and algorithms via studying a species of ant called Desert ants (Cataglyphis) . The purpose of this research has been to gain an insight into how insects sense the world differently to humans (insect vision) and the algorithms which the ants use to navigate home after searching for food (insect navigation). This research could provide valuable insight into exploring the use of unconventional insect-based sensors in robotics, and how the new data acquired from these sensors can be exploited by algorithms to solve tasks such as navigation.
  
This research is recent and currently unknown to the general public, but Bioinspired computing could be the basis of revolutionary technologies for the future. The reasoning being, as Moore’s Law is becoming more and more difficult to obey by increasing raw computing power , different approaches to computation may be necessary; the secrets of which may lie in understanding computing in biology. This can be summed up by a quote from Steve Furber, ICL Professor of Computer Engineering, University of Manchester “Research groups are now looking at architectures for greater functionality/speed to replace logic gates. What we really want is more elegant computation architectures; something that emulates the brain...”. 

Therefore, the objective of this dissertation project is to increase public awareness and interest in Bioinspired computing, and hopefully inspiring more research being done into a valuable yet relatively unexplored field of computer science.
